Application.md, before:

---
Title: Mozilla Science Fellowship Application
Author: Sarah Stevens
---


### What research fields are you in? (25 words)  
computational biology, microbiology, genomics, microbial ecology, microbial evolution, population biology

### What is your research focus? (50 words)  
My research aims to better understand the forces governing diversity and community structure for populations of lake microbes over time, using a long-term dataset.
I do so using methods not biased by what can be grown in the lab, such as metagenomics and single cell genomics.

### Describe to us your current research team. (50 words)  
I am a PhD Candidate in an academic lab that studies the microbial ecology of both natural(lakes) and engineered(wastewater) systems.
Our lab currently consists of thirteen graduate students(including me!), one post-doctoral researcher, one assistant scientist, and one principal investigator.
We collaborate with many researchers at other Universities and government labs.



### Describe to us how open science advances your research. (100 words)  
Open science is a key part of my work starting at the sample collection.
All of my samples are collected as part of a Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) project and the samples I work with are sequenced by the DOE's Joint Genome Institute.
Both of these organizations require the data be made public.

Open science has also been instrumental in my own development as a researcher.
I've learned so much teaching Software Carpentry workshops and from open lessons or scripts.
My research also depends on many pieces of open source software, without which my research would be much harder.

### Are you leading any projects related to open science? (100 words)  
In 2014, I started a group on my campus to facilitate researchers helping each other improve their computational skills.  We also host study groups for R and python.  I was very excited to see the resources provided by Mozilla study groups and I now join the monthly study group calls.
Additionally, I am involved in teaching Software Carpentry workshops.  I've taught a number on my campus and have helped put together another at a nearby campus.  I also made installation videos to help students install the prerequisite software.
I look forward to the opportunity develop other open science projects!

### How do you see Mozilla advancing your work? (50 words)  
In my research, I'm always learning new skills very quickly and not throughly.
This fellowship would allow me to focus more on developing these skills.
My work will also benefit from the opportunity to meet people I can learn from and people who are just getting started in open science.

### What do you see as the opportunities for impact around open research at your university? Could you leverage this opportunity in a potential project? (50 words)
For one, I'd like to start a seminar series addressing questions, suggesting tools, and generally promoting open science.
Additionally I'd like to publicize this series and my study groups by giving talks at existing local symposia.
The materials I assemble could be reused at other campuses to promote open science.

### What do you think needs to change most immediately in scientific research? (100 words)
In the life sciences especially, we are starved for computational training.  Sequencing has made biology more and more data driven, yet the training has not kept up.  Most biology students have no computational training upon starting graduate school but most will have to learn at least some bioinformatics in order to carry out their research.  I've seen my classmates and labmates struggle to learn or avoid learning the computational skills they need to do their work.  We need more early training and better support for scientists who are learning.  I hate for anyone to struggle through learning these skills alone.

### What project in the field do you find most inspiring to further science and the web? (50 words)
I'm very inspired by Software and Data Carpentry.  It is a very impactful project and there is such a strong community supporting the development of new materials. 
I'm also inspired by the semester long open science/reproducible research classes developed and taught by Christie Bahlai and Karl Broman.

### Why is the the open web important to you? (25 words)
The level playing field and community support provided by the open web are an important resource for anyone who is curious and especially scientists.

Commit message:

updates to the open science advance research section

Application.md, after:

---
Title: Mozilla Science Fellowship Application
Author: Sarah Stevens
---


### What research fields are you in? (25 words)  
computational biology, microbiology, genomics, microbial ecology, microbial evolution, population biology

### What is your research focus? (50 words)  
My research aims to better understand the forces governing diversity and community structure for populations of lake microbes over time, using a long-term dataset.
I do so using methods not biased by what can be grown in the lab, such as metagenomics and single cell genomics.

### Describe to us your current research team. (50 words)  
I am a PhD Candidate in an academic lab that studies the microbial ecology of both natural(lakes) and engineered(wastewater) systems.
Our lab currently consists of thirteen graduate students(including me!), one post-doctoral researcher, one assistant scientist, and one principal investigator.
We collaborate with many researchers at other Universities and government labs.



### Describe to us how open science advances your research. (100 words)  
Open science is a key part of my work starting at the sample collection.
All of my samples are collected as part of a Long Term Ecological Research (LTER) project and the samples I work with are sequenced by the DOE's Joint Genome Institute.
Both of these organizations require the data be made public.
My research also depends on many pieces of open source software, without which I would have to spend extra effort to produce the results.
I've developed as a researcher and instructor by teaching Software Carpentry workshops, where I also learned to do more reproducible research.

### Are you leading any projects related to open science? (100 words)  
In 2014, I started a group on my campus to facilitate researchers helping each other improve their computational skills.  We also host study groups for R and python.  I was very excited to see the resources provided by Mozilla study groups and I now join the monthly study group calls.
Additionally, I am involved in teaching Software Carpentry workshops.  I've taught a number on my campus and have helped put together another at a nearby campus.  I also made installation videos to help students install the prerequisite software.
I look forward to the opportunity develop other open science projects!

### How do you see Mozilla advancing your work? (50 words)  
In my research, I'm always learning new skills very quickly and not throughly.
This fellowship would allow me to focus more on developing these skills.
My work will also benefit from the opportunity to meet people I can learn from and people who are just getting started in open science.

### What do you see as the opportunities for impact around open research at your university? Could you leverage this opportunity in a potential project? (50 words)
For one, I'd like to start a seminar series addressing questions, suggesting tools, and generally promoting open science.
Additionally I'd like to publicize this series and my study groups by giving talks at existing local symposia.
The materials I assemble could be reused at other campuses to promote open science.

### What do you think needs to change most immediately in scientific research? (100 words)
In the life sciences especially, we are starved for computational training.  Sequencing has made biology more and more data driven, yet the training has not kept up.  Most biology students have no computational training upon starting graduate school but most will have to learn at least some bioinformatics in order to carry out their research.  I've seen my classmates and labmates struggle to learn or avoid learning the computational skills they need to do their work.  We need more early training and better support for scientists who are learning.  I hate for anyone to struggle through learning these skills alone.

### What project in the field do you find most inspiring to further science and the web? (50 words)
I'm very inspired by Software and Data Carpentry.  It is a very impactful project and there is such a strong community supporting the development of new materials. 
I'm also inspired by the semester long open science/reproducible research classes developed and taught by Christie Bahlai and Karl Broman.

### Why is the the open web important to you? (25 words)
The level playing field and community support provided by the open web are an important resource for anyone who is curious and especially scientists.
